---
layout: post-light-feature
title: Protection Spells Against White Devils
description: my final project for Philosophy of Data
categories: articles
date: {2017-12-12}
image: null
published: true
---
One of the most bothersome things about Bennington – and society at large – is how white it is. Every other day people of color die at the hands of white supremacist violence. Every other day I have to hear about a white person feeling as though they have the right to say the n-word, especially in the vicinity of black people. Every other day I have to attend classes in which I am the only black person present. Considering that, as much as I would like to, I cannot ‘tune out’ or ‘opt-out’ being affected by racism. With that in mind, I have decided that my Philosophy of Data final should pertain to anti-black racism, both on and off Bennington’s campus. 
The sources of inspiration for this project are from hoodoo, voodoo and other folk spiritual traditions of the African diaspora, namely the Black southern tradition of bottle trees. Bottle trees are a practice in which people hang glass bottles in order to trap and destroy evil spirits. According to legend, the spirits, drawn by the attractive bottles were captured inside of them until the rising morning sun could kill them.  An originally African tradition, it was brought to the American Deep South through the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade.  Much of hoodoo spirituality is rooted in justice, equity, and protection, things that were often denied to black slaves and their currently living descendants. For my final will install one of my own ‘bottle trees’ on campus. I plan to hang several glass bottles from a tree in front of the dining hall with rope. On each bottle I will have written or otherwise labeled with anecdotal data of racist acts (e.g. saying the n word, voting for Trump, touching a black person’s hair, etc.) in combination with statistical data regarding race at Bennington (e.g. when Bennington started admitting students of color, the percentages of white students vs. students of color, how many black faculty there are vs. white faculty, etc.).  As of now, I have a prototype with six bottles with the aforementioned anecdotal data, but I was unable to add any bottles with statistical data.  
In a metaphorical sense, I am ‘capturing’ and guarding against these racist acts, in the hope that bringing them to light will provoke an emotional response within the white people of this campus who otherwise would not think to seriously confront racism.  Furthermore, I, as well as many other black people, are exhausted with having to carry this kind of knowledge within ourselves at all times, to have a running list of people and places to avoid in order not to be further assailed with these things. 
